0.80 changelog (#32184)
microsoft/PowerToys: README.md

Our [prioritized roadmap][roadmap] of features and utilities that the core team is focusing on.

### 0.80 - March 2024 Update

In this release, we focused on stability and improvements.

**Highlights**

 - New feature: Desired State Configuration support, allowing the use of winget configure for PowerToys.
 - The Windows App SDK dependency was updated to 1.5.1, fixing many underlying UI issues.

>  - Webp/webm files support was added to Peek. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - WebP/WebM files support was added to Peek. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!
```

Correct abbreviation. See: https://developers.google.com/speed/webp?hl=en

 - Audio files support was added to Peek. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!
 - Automated UI testing for FancyZones Editor was added to CI.

### General

 - Added a Quick Access entry to access the flyout from PowerToys' tray icon right click menu. Thanks [@pekvasnovsky](https://github.com/pekvasnovsky)!

>  - Added support for Desired State Configuration in PowerToys, allowing the use of winget configure to configure many settings.

Reviewer: Maybe adding a link to what DSC is or to more information regarding PowerToys DSC could be helpful

Author: Thinking of linking to DSC docs on learn.microsoft.com, after opening that PR

Author: Added the link in the Highlights mention of DSC.

### Awake

 - Fix an issue causing the "Keep screen on" option to disable after Awake deactivated itself.

### Color Picker

 - Fixed border transparency issues in the picker popup when picking a color.
 - Fixed a UI issue causing the color picker modal to hide part of the color bar. Thanks [@TheChilledBuffalo](https://github.com/TheChilledBuffalo)!

### Command Not Found

>  - Try to search and use a preview version of Powershell if a stable version is not found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Now tries to find a preview version of PowerShell if no stable version is found.
```

 - The pressing of the shift key is now detected through raw input to fix an issue causing the shift key to be locked for some users.

### File Explorer add-ons

 - Fixed a crash occurring in the Monaco previewer when a file being previewed isn't found by the code behind.
 - Fixed an issue in the Markdown previewer adding a leading space to code blocks. Thanks [@Aaron-Junker](https://github.com/Aaron-Junker)!
 - Fixed wrong location and scaling of preview results on screens with different DPIs.
 - Added better clean up code to thumbnail handlers to prevent locking files.

### File Locksmith

 - Allow multiple lines to wrap when viewing the modal with selected file paths. Thanks [@sanidhyas3s](https://github.com/sanidhyas3s)!

### Installer

 - Fixed the final directory name of the PowerToys Run VSCode Workspaces plugin in the installation directory to match the plugin name. Thanks [@zetaloop](https://github.com/zetaloop)!
 - Used more generic names for the bootstrap steps, so that "Installing PowerToys" is not shown when uninstalling.

### Keyboard Manager

 - Fixed an issue that would clear out KBM mappings when certain numpad keys were used as the second key of a chord.

>  - Added a comment in localization files so that translators wouldn't translate "Text" as "SMS".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Added a comment in localization files so that translators won't translate "Text" as "SMS".
```

### Peek

>  - Added support to .webp/.webm files in the image/video previewer. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Added support to .WebP/.WebM files in the image/video previewer. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!
```

Same as above

 - Added support for audio files. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!
 - Fixed an issue causing the open file button in the title bar to be un-clickable. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!
 - Fixed an issue when previewing a folder with a dot in the name that caused Peek to try to preview it as a file. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

### PowerToys Run

>  - Added a property to the Windows Search plugin to exclude files and patterns from the results. Thanks [@HydroH](https://github.com/HydroH)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Added a setting to the Windows Search plugin to exclude files and patterns from the results. Thanks [@HydroH](https://github.com/HydroH)!
```

Our [prioritized roadmap][roadmap] of features and utilities that the core team is focusing on.

### 0.80 - March 2024 Update

> In this release, we focused on stability and improvements. The next release is planned to be released during Microsoft Build 2024.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this release, we focused on stability and improvements. The next release is planned to be released during Microsoft [Build 2024](https://build.microsoft.com/) (late May).
```

 - Fixed an issue when previewing a folder with a dot in the name that caused Peek to try to preview it as a file. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!

### PowerToys Run

 - Added a setting to the Windows Search plugin to exclude files and patterns from the results. Thanks [@HydroH](https://github.com/HydroH)!
 - Fixed an issue showing thumbnails caused by a hash collision between similar images.
 - Added the "checkbox and multiline text box" additional property type for plugins and improved multiline text handling. Thanks [@htcfreek](https://github.com/htcfreek)!

### Quick Accent

 - Added the Schwa character to the Italian character set. Thanks [@damantioworks](https://github.com/damantioworks)!

### Registry Preview

 - Allow alternative valid names for the root keys. Thanks [@e-t-l](https://github.com/e-t-l)! 
 - Fixed an issue causing many pick file windows to be opened simultaneously. Thanks [@randyrants](https://github.com/randyrants)!

### Screen Ruler

 - Updated the measure icons for clarity. Thanks [@Aaron-Junker](https://github.com/Aaron-Junker) and [@niels9001](https://github.com/niels9001)!

### Shortcut Guide

>  - Updated the Emoji shortcut that is shown to the new Windows key + dot hotkey.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - Updated the Emoji shortcut that is shown to the new Windows key + period (.) hotkey.
```

### Text Extractor

 - Fixed issues creating the extract layout on certain monitor configurations.

### Video Conference Mute

 - Added enable/disable telemetry to get usage data.

### Settings

 - Added locks to some terms (like the name of some utilities) so that they aren't localized.
 - Fixed some shortcuts not being shown properly in the Flyout and Dashboard. Thanks [@davidegiacometti](https://github.com/davidegiacometti)!
 - Updated image for Color Picker and outdated animations for utilities in OOBE. Thanks [@niels9001](https://github.com/niels9001)!

### Documentation

 - Added FastWeb plugin to PowerToys Run thirdPartyRunPlugins.md docs. Thanks [@CCcat8059](https://github.com/CCcat8059)!

>  - Removed the old security link to MSRC from the create new issue screen, since security.md is already linked in the screen.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 - Removed the old security link to MSRC from the _Create new issue_ page, since security.md is already linked here.
```

### 0.80 - March 2024 Update

> In this release, we focused on stability and improvements. The next release is planned to be released during Microsoft Build 2024.

Reviewer 3: This still doesn't tell me when I (as a user) can expect it. At the least link to https://build.microsoft.com/ and/or mention the date.
